# SimEng Visualiser

Below is a summary of how to use the SimEng Visualiser tool.

## Running
The visualiser can be run with the following command:
```bash
  python3 visualiser <path to trace file> <path to probe file> --force
```
Where the trace and probe files have been generated by SimEng through the use
of the "trace" and "probe" optional arguments.

The --force argument is an optional argument that forces the re-writing of
.cache files for the specified trace and probe files.

## Display
The visualiser interface is split into 5 windows. The Timeline window displays
the traces of each instruction whilst the right-adjacent window displays
information about each instruction detailed in the window header.

The bottom 3 windows are related to probing. The far-left bottom window shows
the probes that occurred in the displayed trace timeline whilst the middle
bottom window show which probe-type each line is displaying. Finally, the far-right
bottom window shows any instruction numbers that are associated with the probes that
have occurred, the instruction numbers displayed line-up with the display of the
probes from left-to-right i.e. the first instruction number will link to the
left-most probe occurrence.

## Controls
The "up" and "down arrow" keys can be used to scroll the timeline up and down
respectively whilst the "page up" and "page down" keys can be used to jump to the
next instruction above or below the currently displayed instructions respectively.

If some information cannot be viewed as it goes beyond the window sizes then the
"left" and "right arrow" keys can be used to horizontally scroll.

The "q" key can be used to exit the program.

## Selecting probes
To open the probe selection the "p" key should be pressed. Within this menu, the
"up" and "down arrows" can be used to move the selector and the "enter" key can
be used to toggle the selected probe on or off. The "a" key can be used to
select all probes and the "n" key to deselect all probes.

The "z" key can be used to confirm the selection.

## Jumping to specific instructions
To open the jump-to menu the "j" key should be pressed. Within this menu, an
instruction number can be typed and jumped to. The "enter" key confirms the input
and the "backspace" key can be used to undo the input.

The "z" key can be used to exit the menu.